live oh uh maybe I'll drop it down
to
20 so I just added a um a noise filter
because I'm outside and there's music
playing and I don't want to get muted so
we're going to see how that audio sounds
but okay what are we doing well first
off I downloaded this very cool theorem
prover and I found this guy's repository
all right well let's let's F stay
focused all right but that's for
later oh man I'm clipping
all
right I say let's make it 15
maybe
17 gosh audio is so annoying but I don't
want to use one of those things that
like auto adjust the game because those
are those are just too
messy all right so it seems like we have
a good bit rate and we're getting
started all right
all right so what are we doing well
let's start by opening the S
code open the our correct
window
okay
okay so we have some pretty exciting
news and that is well first off let me
just show you what guys what this is I
wonder
if uh that's not what I
wanted
okay I'm sure this is
not uh great for Content but I need to
be able to see the screen okay so what
is this we we're building a computer
algebra system so I can run this program
uh okay cool so it started up and it's
loaded some files so what what can I do
I can do set X to one I can type in X
but then I can say set
my
function and it's going to
take a single argument and that argument
can be anything and it's going to return
high so that's not very cool
o so now I can say my function and if I
do it with no arguments it returns
itself but if I give
it X or Y no matter what based on our
pattern matching language this pattern
matches any argument that I could
possibly give here um okay so that's
pretty cool um you can use this to write
many things we can go to our startup and
we can see some examples of
uh one cool thing Nest
list
fx10 and now we have a list of X being
repeatedly applied to one over and over
again
that's pretty cool um how can we use
this to do cool things like simulate
cellular automa well good thing is I
wrote this
code so first off we're going to define
a rule or we're going to find a function
and this should probably be set
D and basically what it does is it takes
a list that has three elements in it and
then it turns xor of the first one with
the or of the the first two and by the
way we can see in startup that we have
our rules for Boolean operators and we
don't have all of them but we have some
of them and this is just so that we can
do stuff like or false true and get true
and so that's pretty
cool and then one thing that I want to
show is that you have this function
called head and it returns basically the
type of whatever is the you know so I
could say head of one and we get an
integer so we get the type of it but
it's really cool because W is not a
something that's built into our language
the only atoms that are built into our
language are uh uh Sim in
stir and
real then we
have um a
compound type where if I have a if I
give another parenthesis here um let's
say let's say we put something in it the
head of compound expression is just the
first element uh so that's just sort of
how the language Works um so now I can
do um stuff like I can take this whole
line and just copy it into here and now
I could say rule 30 of L list false true
false and now we see that whatever cell
below that is true and so if I were to
go
to here and say uh
uh we can indeed see that if we have a
single black cell and two white cells so
false true false then we should be false
or true and that is exactly what we get
so then what what can we do here so we
so I started to write
some uh pretty bad code honestly
basically I have a function that just
joins so we have this function join that
takes three
lists um so we can see that here with
the
argument
here here and then
here and so basically this second
argument to blank says
um the second argument to blank says
what is the head this will this pattern
will only match if this head is equal to
the head of what we're trying to match
so if I if and we can test this out by
using the match Q function which Q is
just an identifier to say that it
returns a bull uh so if I do match Q
false true it's going to return false if
I if I say false blank we get true but
now if I say false uh int it returns
false but if I say false Sim it returns
true so the head of false is Sim so then
this matches so similarly uh if we have
a list ABC then we can test that
oop we can test that uh that blank list
matches some list but if I change this
to something else I'm going get false so
we're giving it a list and then we're
giving it a value and basically we're
padding that value onto either side of
it and the reason for that is that if we
uh whatever I know how to do
this we're we're going to plot the
simulation of this
for with zeros infinite number of zeros
five times oop and I forgot
this and so basically we need to pad
zeros on the on the ends of this because
otherwise uh we end up growing inward
because we don't know what is on the
side of it so the way that this works is
if I do um let's copy this into
here we can do pad Val of the uh this
one two three and we want to pad it with
three then we get threes on the end of
it so this is just a helper function um
I'm pretty sure the way that you would
do this in Mathematica is much
more you definitely wouldn't need to
Define this function and I'm sure
internally they
don't um so then I Define this function
called Partition
three uh and basically what this does is
it gives me um a list of lists where
each ele each of the Su lists is
basically
um the like index I i+ one and I +2 so
let's copy that in I'll show you what
does so let's say we have a table of uh
or let's say we
have set X's to
range oops I me do that range
20 okay so now we have the numbers from
1 to
20 where were we we were
in
systems systems okay so I can do this uh
and we want tab completion but that's
later um okay it only takes one argument
and so now we have the list 1 2 3 2 3 4
3 45 and there is a real partition
function that is much more General but I
haven't implemented yet it yet um but it
allows you to
do very nice
things anyways um so then basically this
gives us the sublist that we want to uh
apply and one function that I should
note that's built in is map F2 X's now
we have F of one F of two all the way up
to F of 20 so this is how we map a
function onto a list or
yeah okay
[Music]
um I wonder if that works
actually
oh it does let's see if that works for
us oh okay so we found a bug it's not
supposed to return a list cool hold on
we found a bug um
in um
all right so let's see if that works
again okay cool so he fixed the
butt
um yeah we we we shouldn't have hard
cased to list um right let's go back to
systems we're going to copy all this
back
in okay now there here's a function
that's just a Helper and all it does is
it takes one of those partitioned
lists and it
um it takes one of those partition lists
uh PS false to the ends of it
uh or or it takes a list it adds the
false value to it it partitions it then
it Maps rule 30 onto each of the values
of the
partition um and so we can see what that
looks
like so we're going to do uh oh yeah I
can do
this okay so now we have u0 which is our
initial condition
is equal to this big long list and what
we did is we made it zero for it's
easier to read and at some point where
we need to add list mutation so that we
can because I can do table of 020 and
that's fine but the problem is you know
this could be 200 we have a whole bunch
of numbers but the problem is that we
don't have any way to modify one of them
so we need list
mutation
uh
but anyways
um so anyways so we have this big long
list and then we replace zero with false
and then we replace all the ones with
true so here we do
this then what we do is we call F
nesting it 20 times so then we can do
this it takes a sec and now if we look
at uh part LS
one then we look at the second one and
uh what we could do is
uh we could do this replace
all list rule false to
zero rule true to one so now we can do
this again and we need to
add one more guy here
okay so now we can do the part again so
we do part okay then we look at part two
we look at part three and so we can see
here that we are correctly
simulating the rule 30 so this is our
first really cool thing I feel like that
we can do in
um we need to clean it up um but one
thing that I adjusted that I think is
valid for me to do but
before I had a
really in nless which is a built-in
function just because it was easy to
implement without uh anyways the problem
that was really annoying is that um I
wasn't actually
evaluating so you know we would do we
would make a list we'd put X in it then
we put f of x in it then we put F of f
ofx in it and we keep going but the
problem is we built up this list and
then evaluate it but what we want to do
for these iterated Maps is that we want
to evaluate F ofx eagerly here so that
when we take look at the last
result then we can
um um we can just use that and it's a
sort of a form of memorization so that
sped up this simulation of the cellular
atoma by a lot like before it was
insanely
slow I mean it was like yeah you you can
see why it was just super super
slow uh so I think that this is valid
but this is a change that worried me a
little bit
because but I
don't
uh I want to combine all my non-core
crates ooh that's a tough one I like
I've always liked
toolkit um I like kit toolbox is pretty
good I think utils is kind of
lame utils feels like it's not
official you
know okay so what do we need to do
here um yeah so anyways now we can
actually get to it's Kit right now I
like kit what's the full name of
it I'm want to come all my
n noncore
crate
see does this reach not
really
Spire let's see let me look up
spire
yeah like a church
Spire right oh because of
Tower yeah it's probably because you use
Tower
right that's cool I can see
that
let me ask
GPT um building a web scraping
framework in Rust that uses the to
framework uh and trying to find names
try build
an
eal was uh trying to find names for it
currently calling it
Spire
because
is let's
see is a noble initiative bro this guy's
so funny name your project can be fun
challenging is the part of the is part
of the
skyscrapers
Sentinel uh pillar sounds lame Sentinel
sounds cooler than pillar I think sp's
Obelisk Citadel I wouldn't call it
Citadel Obelisk is not the craziest I
mean Obelisk is a little much I feel
like but it's kind of cool
dude I love naming things naming is so
such a tough
[Music]
problem
uh sound like they're taken I I believe
it well okay like what is web scraping
web scraping is like going out and and
like I imagine like you're a ship in
like Rough Waters you know what I
mean and
uh
yeah but yeah like web scraping I
imagine you're like on a ship and you're
visiting all these like coastal towns
and some of them could be with Marauders
and
stuff
um spire's pretty good I'm still trying
to think if there's a another core name
that because Spire doesn't make me think
of web scraping Spire makes me think
of like Spire doesn't make me think it's
a web scraping framework so I'm trying
to think maybe there's
something
do you know what I
mean I still think Spire is a good name
just because of the tower dependency but
what did you
say what is the thing about the
skyscraper yeah no that's true no I'm
just I'm just messing around I'm just
thinking about it uh
okay
imagine uh what's a good name if we
think of web
scraping
like journeying out into the great
expanse of the
web
Voyager dude I kind of like
Voyager expand scraper is the worst name
I've ever
heard expedition's not a bad
name
I wish they sold coffee here such a
shame that they
[Music]
don't I think spire's pretty good but I
don't know what other uh like
Dash voer taking oh really that's so
funny that's so
funny oh it's it's a pretty big
repo
someone had the same idea as me that's
wild kick
[Music]
W oh this guy I know this guy that's
crazy yeah he wrote the differential
equation
package this package is sweet that's so
cool it's funny how a few people build
all the cool like damn let's see what
other names they come up with these are
all trash Spire is pretty good I feel
like spire's nice because it's
short
it's dead
yeah spy I feel like Spire is pretty
good
um okay so what are we doing today
though today we are um improving the
pattern
that to
handle a couple of
things
uh
Alternatives um oh dude by the way I did
something where I uh
yeah yeah I know the best stuff in the
ecosystem is definitely built by a small
I it's a power law thing like there's
just some extremely talented
developers oh shoot hold
on um what was I going to
say yeah I I found something where I
wanted to use your
uh your uh your package actually so I
want so down here in these doc Pages
there's this history and it says what
version these things were
introduced and um I found this super
cool package called
DM and all it is is it's a minimal HTTP
downloader manager that works just fine
but it's actually amazing because you
just give it a path to a bunch of URLs
you know in a text file and it just
downloads them super fast and if you
like cut if you like if it like 404s or
something then it doesn't download
anything so you get this super clean
thing so I downloaded every single um
page of the docs all of all 7,000
functions or whatever now I have this
thing let's see where did I put
it it's probably in
dlm or no the CSV is probably in WL
scraper oh
shoot
um anyway so now I have this CSV and I
have every function and what version it
was
introduced
and that is so
nice so I had to do a bit of web
scraping
recently but this package worked out way
better than because I've always wanted
to build just a nice download manager uh
and this one worked out just so
well uh okay so we want Alternatives
then we want
uh
pattern test and I feel like these are
the these are the first two that we want
to add to the pattern
matcher so I feel like I should just
start
on so let's get this let's go to the
full form of
this
yeah Alternatives A and
B so how does replace all
work
Okay cool so yeah we are calling we're
calling match CU of
oh this is rep yeah but
here that's still going to be true but
expert
oh yeah so here we check ah head oh I
see I'm just zoomed in too
much we can clean that up a little
bit but yeah so here if we get a list
then we iterate the list recursing so
that's okay
so then we end up calling my match on
each of them with the original
rules so yes so
[Music]
in
here we probably want to say
if
I don't think that this will
work so everything should still
pass but if we do uh match
Q uh
you know
ABC
uh
for
but what's another case because I feel
like this is not all that we have to
do
ABC
and then it's rule
Alternatives
[Music]
AB to
X and then this needs to be
lowercase yeah so now we're in the case
where we need
to
okay so
what oh yeah we should try
that
uh
damn right I know why
though
um
but that's should return true because we
get F and
F
okay then we
iterate PS what are
PS the elements of pattern and we skip
skip one that's right push that we add
the new
position I think we just need to
add I think we just need to
add
is that
it
no
is it supposed to be
X I don't think it's supposed to be
X
for
maybe I should oh yeah optional I wanted
optional because
uh
for
wait
what is that
a that's a part
[Music]
number
all right well let's I guess try to save
Focus because Alternatives would be good
Alternatives getting my head a little
M
okay
what's an example of Alternatives that
use a sequence
pattern
this is eight
huh
uh
oh well
okay
oh
I'm just trying to think about what
happens when it's
uh
sequence man they got rid of the corner
hole here they used to have
cornhole
all right so let's start to add
debug I think we need to add a fast path
for
uh
whatever I'm not getting distracted by
it's not any of my
concern okay
uh like why does it go through so of
this yeah it Loops over all the
attributes that's just a horrible way to
define how to find the attributes for a
symbol I feel like we should just do a
manual look
up into the hashmap but whatever uh so
we have this now we want to
do match Q of
G or or actually no we just want to call
G of
a I think it might be just a matter of
oh yeah that's
true I think we did
it
no it's probably because we need to
remove this one this
one see we call attribute so
much where does the real match actually
even
begin here so this is the only part that
so we get
GG no but if we've already looked at the
heads then this is
but how does Alternatives work
with what's a good
case yeah we have G of a b and then G
of um a
or double blank
like that I think that's
right so we do
uh then we have
uh G
of
yeah
none of these cases
use
oh
is
uh
what
the
sequence I don't know it seems like
uh
seems like they were not
ready
h
damn
or you could
call
shouldn't that do
it or oh but it's not it's not P it's
uh you you want to you want to replace
that with
um
um so you you copy
it then you say p copy
one is equal
to then you give it a p
copy
wait is this
right wait that's not even
right
cuz what you want
is you want
um
oh
that
sh
yeah we do this every single evaluation
one the number of times that we go
through the pad match are
doing I will open an issue for that
that's just total
um
is too damn
High cuz this is bothering the
hell
that's
all right let's see if that cleans it
up oh
l
that's
all right that's fine that's
fine no stop
bro
sounds
good
h
why didn't this return true
though
well okay we don't even hit this
Branch okay now so now we're in an
argument of the
list
oh wait actually so wait so wait I want
to try this though
so we have
q
Alternatives z l so this
works evidently
no
for
wait I don't
understand oh yeah no this is true this
is
true this is if the head is it then all
the rest are going to be the
Alternatives so that's
fine
uhoh
and
then no yeah right so we had it right
the first time where this is just going
to be
P okay so we had that right that's
fine
oh
nice okay so now what we have is we
have Matt we have um
we have a a
matching alt a b or to
B
so so then we have uh
mqb uh alt
a and that's
true but I feel like this
one might be
wrong
so this is the case where the head is
not alternative let say we have f
b
right so I feel like here is the case
where we want
to recreate the whole thing because
CU X here is still Fab or
FB that's why you get these
comparisons
for
okay
so
uh so how does this
happen Okay so we don't find a
match
oops okay so we looked at the heads so
now we're doing mq of
FB
alt or F of
Alt
AB so yeah so
here here we check
that so we get F that now we're trying
to match B with
alt
a I feel like we don't even need this
so
yeah this is
stupid
so why does
that oh
okay so I I can think of a way to do
that we can just append to the position
map and we just say that Alternatives
goes
to
whichever one it
is
so so we want to insert into the
position
map so here
here so we don't want to do it in here
that's for I think
but we
get all
right but you need a way to
report so maybe you do insert it
here cuz the position here is the
position of the alternative so I feel
like you could
do POS
map.
insert
PA and then
um
what
oh I don't
know
but
that um that
[Music]
um I don't know if that's valid but I
feel all right well let let's see if
that does kind of what I wanted it to
do do our print
h
all of these things are
crazy maybe we should fix
that
[Music]
for we need to remove it
right cuz if we do
this
[Music]
m
oh
yeah yeah
so
oh jeez that's a tough
one that's a tough one
because
godam regardless I think that this
should be fine we
do
so that
works
now
yeah it's kind of an abusive
uh
okay so you have
um f
a
and you're matching with
f a or blank you know X of blank
c so
that's so it could be that what you
could do is something like up here
before you
even you
know
um
uh or wait we don't even need to do this
we could just
do then what you do is you
[Music]
um this is probably right
honestly
I'm going to try this so I feel like
this is makes some
sense mat C or wait we can just do
this
well first let's say
uh
um so then why does the nested case here
fail it's just cuz we're not rebuilding
properly that's what my guess
is I don't think that this is the right
approach CU this is like
the but I think it might solve
that
that's
right
uh
you just you need to have rules to tell
you how to do
this so okay so let's say that you
have another position
map that predates the uh the first
position
map which tells you which alternatives
to
pick
so wait but no but this doesn't do what
I was hoping
can we go back
down
okay
if the head is
alternative no yeah I had it
right that's definitely
wrong
yeah okay so to clarify the
issue uh so we're going to go back here
because this is somewhat
working oh whatever the the point is
that when we do this
Loop
um well let's give an example
um
that just return stre that's
fine because
it it's all literals but let's
um
right that hit still hits the fast
path am I inserting anywhere how the
hell does that work
okay but now let's
say oh
wait what's the case that doesn't
work wait that does like a lot of what
we
want
I do
not
um
this is just
insane what causes
that
totally oh see
[Music]
uh we do need to invoke the pattern
matcher for this
though is that true there there's got to
be
a well okay I guess the solution is to
just
not
yeah because this is how we're getting
the attributes of or the down values of
attributes then we get the actual
attributes
uh it's got to be issue
why is this
empty these are my
issues I guess that's a
sign
all right all okay all right
so I don't want to fix that I just want
to look into it
um oh actually it's interesting because
what we do is we pretend that we're at
the position of the alternative so
that's actually kind of
smart so that's why this works but then
this doesn't
work for the same
reason right oh wait no wait this does
work because then when we call
this we're still pretending that this is
at position of that so then what is the
case that fails the case that fails
is H why does that
fit
do we
insert
for
uh okay wait we want
to make a test set for
this wait why did that get
disabled
what
oh yeah because we need to
do and we need
Nest so we need to do
this
[Music]
um I think that's
fine Contex okay cool I think that
that's all we need to do and now this
test will pass okay
cool that was
scary
um
okay uh can we look at the attributes
for
Alternatives okay yeah it's
nothing I think we
[Music]
can
I think we can keep this so what are our
test cases we want to actually use this
thing
uh uh but here it's just going to be a
VC
d
okay so what are our test
cases okay so we're just going to write
them as one string we're going to say
match q a
Alternatives
AB so that's our first
one and then what we want to do
is for in
cases
uh I don't even know if we need the
context here but that's
fine uh
see
okay oh I guess we
we we do want
this okay
oh
okay then we
want then we want f
a
and this is the one that fails right
now so we do this we get a failure oh
really oh did that fix it actually
that's kind of
crazy all right so okay so wait so what
are our other
cases let's look through our
history I'm so glad I have this long ass
history
all right so this one this is a good
one that's
cool
what are the cases do we
have this
one let's um let's try to run some of
these
out
yeah well so that's that one we test so
let's see if we can do it with
set so we do set d8
H H
Alternatives
AB
P let we do h of a we get p we get C we
get H of C so that's
cool
uh this is a good one to
test set L list of X power
X2 power
X3 and our
Y2 that's our list so that's fine now we
want to do replace all
L of
rule
Alternatives X power
x
blank and this goes to
Q wow hey this kind of works
bro did we do
it
what is this
doing oh this is the match we trying to
find all these rules that we have
been
damn
that's pretty uh let's see what else do
we
have this one works I think I think we
just tested
this I honestly don't know how this
works okay well let's add another
one for pattern xes
is one here I just make sure that that
also I mean I don't expect to do
anything weird so that's
good what other cases do they even
show that'd be pretty cool if we got
this to
work
I think we've already tested
this
cool so that I mean that does what we
want it to
do wow that's a pretty small change to
improve the pattern match like
that too bad that there's no good
syntax So what had to be changed
here
this is honestly suspicious to
me
cool all right and then this didn't man
that's such an easy fix all you do is if
you see at the head that there is a
alternative then you iterate them and if
you find one then you just fake your
position I I think we're good guys I
think we did
it
um I want to try another
case no man I I feel like I can't break
it cool
I want to add that
one I don't think we don't have any
negative tests so maybe that's a
problem can we try
this
this to
false I mean I feel like I'm just
testing cases that I've already tested
before but I'm very I'm very concerned
that I do anything to the pattern mat we
really don't want any
regressions but I just don't don't see
anything that's
wrong
all right
cool uh I think we want to introduce an
option system well should we do pattern
test first pattern test might be a good
idea wait oh I went too
far fre Q is such an EAS such a good
I feel like some of
these
um whoa there's a bug how could there be
possibly be a
bug
terrible
pattern test is definitely easier to
write than okay wait let me commit my
let me commit my changes
where did I make
it
wa okay yeah let's just go through all
this okay
so
uh bunch of
stuff mainly
alterntive support and then for my
aliases
add it's
nice okay let's go back to main
um
disable index or disable index prints in
part
uh was noisy in
Partition but I think that we want them
so
maybe okay seems like we're back cool um
what did we do here oh yeah evaluating
the
intermediate result in Nest
list um avoid and X
a big perf Improvement in
simulating
30 okay what else do we
do oh yeah Implement
join why did we do this in yeah no no no
we we have to do it in the kernel
because the pattern mat is not strong
enough
okay basic timing
function I think it's kind of oh
actually
H wait this is a good way to test
whether or not they intermediately
evue
uh oh is it actually no it's
not no CU I was doing was I doing Nest
list or
range
I'm not sure but anyways let's it's
[Music]
documented add a note
about
because you don't need to invoke the
whole pattern
match you do need to iterate the down
the down values of
matters if that's how we're going to
have it
work
uh I guess I don't know how I'll make a
note
that I don't
know how they do it because down values
of attributes is
empty
maybe
it's okay
[Music]
okay cool what else do we
do
I'm so glad that it was such a
simple
change you just lie to the position and
it's so that's such a clever way to do
it I love
that cool that's
[Music]
it
okay um now we want to do p pattern test
is that what we want to
do I feel like options might be
cool
Jolie
[Music]
jol
what
the option system is probably pretty
difficult gives the list of default
options assigned to a symbol gives the
options explicitly specified in a
particular expression
say a
graphics
object the particular stream I don't
know what a
stream Jolene Jolene
jol uh what's my audio audio seems
pretty good
minus 10 is like I guess that's where
you want to
be
um
I mean that is super tight minus 3 to
minus1
DB minus 3 to minus
6 yeah so I'm a I'm a little bit quiet
but
whatever many built-in functions allow
you to give additional arguments that
specify options with rules of the form
named rule
value options F gives the list of rules
to be used for the options associated
with the function f with no explicit
rules if no explicit rules are given
when the function is
called options always
give a list of transformation rules for
option
names
huh you can always you can assign a
value to options symbol to redefine all
the default
options and then you can use that option
okay see but I guarantee that if you do
down values of
options you're going to get an empty
list I
guarantee so they do something
clever is there even a way to get up
values
yeah I don't
know so it's they're not up values
they're not down values I don't really
understand I don't really understand
what it's supposed to
be
well okay let's keep reading about
options the reason why that we're doing
options by the way is that
um now that we have this
uh now that we
have now that we have
this we want to make an SVG or
something
for
I'm just
curious but do we really want to depend
on
gtk I feel like no
uh I feel like this is a whole let's see
are there examples in
here I feel like we want Cairo examples
oh and of course there's no
examples I mean rust in general is way
better at examples than other places
but that's a pretty uh High minimum
version
okay well let's keep
reading so
clearly I don't know if it's clear but I
feel like
options an
optional
oh that's nice trary form of that I kind
of like
that it lowers to the same
thing
what's the difference between that and
an own
value when it gets evaluated I
guess
directly
integrated what are the attributes on
rule delayed I think it's just a matter
of hold
rest
all right maybe we should do something
kind of like click B be kind of
fun but the thing is we don't
want
dude I love that they just have example
data
spiky oh this is so
cool gives you a data set of all the
information it's rat
man why does it have a
height
maybe I should just do
it
[Music]
what was it again it was like Cloud
object it's a cloud object or
something
I think it was Cloud on
yeah so where's our
rle
I just want to look at
it
what
I think I have to do like
Cloud
what
wait
cool
uh it's
here uh
dot rust
right rust
Dev three let's put it here
for
um
see I don't know anything about the
standard what is
it it embeds the base 64 PNG into
it so is it not
a
because I would assume that it's like
a I mean this is where all the data is
this base 64 encoded
thing
what do what do these even
mean
all right I don't want to do it in here
I want to make a new or new
thing I have Graphics
stuff
there's some six old in
here how do we do
this what is g Graphics Li oh
good these big projects always have this
nonsense in it
cool
okay
is that the whole thing all right let's
see why do we need Cairo and CYO RX
what's the
difference
what version are we
using
what cuz this is just the wrong
REO that's bogus
dude take this down
bro yes dude take it down why can't I oh
yes take that down
dead what does he work
on little
foot yeah
bro
now map to image is that what we
want wait hold
on wait I want to save it to
uh
do you need to
unwrap we need to do surface.
finish it didn't see anything with
that
what
see
what does data
do take data image surface data what the
hell is image surface
data you the surface get the slice
should we just get the
slice
maybe we should just do that do
slice I need to give it a h come
on
Save uh CYO
RS
GG
right is there any
examples somehow they just fail to have
any
examples
ridiculous
just don't understand why they do this
man
yeah
I mean this is the kind of code it's
just like so annoying why can't it just
work can can I just call it do
into
H should we do
that where do we do it we do it here or
we do it on the in
okay I don't I don't that's bogus what
is the
type SVG surface me
see let's see if this
works oh wait wait hold
on oh hey they have a postcript thing
too expected an option bro
what oh
cool
um is there a viewer can I get a SVG
viewer let's do
this oh
nice
damn hold
on let's see what happens if we
just copy this to source does that
work I don't know what I just
did
so how do we just view the SVG it's like
so
whack oh wait hold
on you go like
this I'm going to
add I'm going to add this
folder to here so source is on the other
side so then we go to cast
[Music]
three why why did I save this to
cast wait that's just not right
um graphic
stuff
oh nice okay so wait we should be able
to just
open oh cool
nice
um I want to look at the actual contents
of this
now okay so
now
[Music]
right so what do we want to do
now what just show
paged
cool okay so what we're
doing is we're now going to write some
function that take
that's it takes
exper
uh so this has head
export uh and it it obviously always
returns an
exper then
um
well we don't even need to do that
because we're never going to enter
this uh so then what what do we need to
do we need to turn this
into so
this
okay
so this is
good and then we could start to mess
around with
[Music]
options and you back into
a
see I wonder how they do this color
stuff because if you just give a list of
lists of list of length three then it
interprets this as pixels so maybe there
should be like a pre-processing step
that just unwraps it I don't know this
is like not that interesting I just want
to look at the
picture all right F let's just do this
I don't
[Music]
care
all right so for now we can
just for now we can just expand it into
two 32 I'm good with
that we Pi anun turn back these
color or that takes
takes
a and file let's see what else do we
need oh yeah and the
scale and the size is what is the
size
all right that should
be yeah we're getting close guys we're
getting close
I'm concerned about build
times feel like build times are going to
get
worse I hate these
dependencies
I'm blinded
by right so what do we need to do all
right we're going to do
this do we want svgs or
pngs
all right let's let's just
uh where should we put
this
U
what happened
Okay cool so
now
for now let's not put it in there for
[Music]
um what what is the standard form
here
oh and it probably has
attributes what do the maybe it's
empty
okay
um
this probably works but it's so
bad
um all right we want something that
unpacks list of list into its
underly
just ask I feel like this one's
easier
that's
oh
good
[Music]
um
you
yeah
wait
what yeah
you see a list make a half that was
very
for
this is just so
wrong
dude this is
bogus yeah
because
bro this is like
black okay
thisum
that we have a list of list of list of
list
[Music]
of
all right we just WR it ourselves being
an
idiot let's just do the Matrix case
Okay damn so
annoying one
back uh to uh back
of what do we want it to
take
right let's make it
take all right let's do this let's just
make sure it's the same time so we've
already done the
replacement
um
okay so we
have um but don't we want to
iterate
okay so what we have is
[Music]
um we have list of list
list so wa do we have else
yeah okay so what we want to
do
uh this
rule Z to L
of and we actually want these to be
real I want to save this
code
all right let's see
what
is that
true but the printing of that is super
annoying we need to fix
that okay but those are
reals um but I want to change the parer
real
quick one or more
real needs a
dot but what do we need zero or
more
the
okay why does that Panic
dude
what
oh
um what okay well let's see what
happens what happens if I
call this is an
evaluate I think we want to return
this oh
did they throw a little arrow they
didn't
um
for
okay so what we doing with
[Music]
f uh so we fixed that parer thing now we
need to run all this again we want to
set
[Music]
uh
pixels
cool so those are our
oh
uh wait no this should work
right why didn't that
work
you're waving sorry we going to call
a
nice
Okay
so
what do we want to
do uh I call
that so what is l so L
is
but okay wait so this is going to
be the
rows
so now we have a list of
list hold on I just want to
this
yeah we have a list list
list this is
ease
or then we go into
here and then we have
e which is
this and then in
here we have an L which is just a list
of
uh uh Piel
values what did it
say
bro cop
is do we want we want
real
wait
so first off comment this out and we're
just print
line
what it's going to print out like
crazy okay so
then function
run not in run in
main wait we need to
do no we need to do this way before
then I this needs to be a first
thing uh but then we want to do
this I'm going comment this out we want
to run
uh we want to run um so now in our
context
we have PS so we want to evaluate so we
want to
call it's called
letal that
[Music]
on
uh go
context new context and then all we need
to do is
um that's it
cool we definitely want a
benchmark okay this is getting slow
bro okay so
uh
for
look
bro why is it rting on this P
out that seems pretty
good
that's pretty
nice so now
in
sure
sure then we want to
call what is called uh
what do we want to do we want to call
color this
thing bro what is the
function
we oh did
this oh that's nice cool get the value
out
okay
Okay cool so now we want to call
Export and then we give it the file
name and then we call uh
yes oh shoot strings can't have
dots okay let's we have to update the
parser
here
uh we
[Music]
problem we need
to
umud
dots what do what do we want to do we
want
to how does how does
it how does it print when we have
H
you
what does a single at do dude I I I've
been using this for so long and I still
don't know
this
so what is the difference between prefix
and
apply
yeah okay what we out
to we want to make the strings more
[Music]
more
cable wait I should add the
uh see you
later
I wonder how we can just make it
arbitrary utfa are there buil-in
rules
she a test from
me
wait
what
I don't even know
what where's
nrt
oh I don't like that we'll need to do
string escaping another
time
wait so what's wrong oh the comma bro
I'm actually dumb as
hell oh
wait no no
no
the
hell
that's all
Gucci
for
oh wait I think I know
why I think we
want
what
bro what is
going
[Music]
uh
this is getting really
annoying
something feels so
laggy wait
what
the hell
bro this just not interesting
man
oh
oh yeah we're good I think I figured
it just need to do this in the other
places
oh let's
go
oh we did it guys we did it
we flipped the we flipped
the we flipped the thing
now
we did
it okay I wonder why it looks like that
that's so crazy we got the grid
though I wonder how it does
that oh that's so sick let's go
guys
first CA in last
three how's my volume oh good it's like
uh maybe I could bump it up to
20 it's a dangerous game CU I hate when
it
whatever that is
sweet the problem is we flipped
it that's okay let's just switch it in
here
there we go
guys that is so
nice
for
um I think we can do okay let's say
random
this is not going to work
right
um
this is just general nonsense they don't
know I'm down to test that I don't know
if that's
right
right you would see you would see more
is the question is the
point you would see 0 01 012
cool
okay where are these stupid printing
things um I think what I want to do is
random so I could simulate random
initial conditions
for
who why is this so
slow want to delete
it that's so
cool it's a big ass
file I'm going to add this to the read
me
no
I'm so not happy with the new
dependencies but
like kind of
cool
okay well pretty
I wonder
if I wonder if this
works
okay so this is just the list of L
I'm going to try see if Cloud export of
this this
works oh this
Returns what is that I think that's just
an
image what the hell is that
thing but there's no
oh wow that's actually kind of
crazy it
saves that's so
interesting it saves an SVG of the
expression that's kind of crazy
huh
is
options would be very
cool
there's so many options for graphics
it's
crazy what happens if I try to do this
oh
wait
yeah that's
aning
I might go get some food
now that's pretty cool we got a
picture
let's see how long we be
going 3 hours that's a good
stream
I don't even know is this right this
kind of looks
wrong how long I
simulated let's try for
longer no I think it's
right
these little
triangles the
corner okay so now what we want to do is
we want to start doing Boolean functions
where we
can we can take an integer like 25 and
turn it
into and turn it
into
this wow that is the worst picture ever
I mean this is all of them possible
Right
it's going to be 2 to the 2 to the three
where the last two numbers are in
parentheses in general for a boan
function with n input variables that can
either be true or false there are two
choices leading to two to the end
possible input
combinations three input variables this
means there's eight possible different
input
combinations therefore for each of the
eight input
combinations there are two Choice the
outut yeah that's how I describe it okay
so
for
the hell is
that Kel Maps don't scale
right I think this is the one that I
looked
at
for
oh this is so nice you can just
give it a basis of operators as long as
the operators are
complete oh that's so
sweet
yes
what algorithm does it
use oh cool you can provide them
that
be only two
what does it give me a
suggestion
the
I don't see
any how is length
Define
am I allowed to just call options on it
to see what it
is
[Music]
um
minion
for
oh
be hard
right
D
so
I always forget this
wait what's the problem with
are we not
found
[Music]
undecidability is
crazy
every problem in NP reduces to it does
that even
mean all right we're going too deep I
might go get some
[Music]
food
got
how
I think the answer is just use random
[Music]
choice
all
is that a range or is that a I think
that's a range it's the standard
iteration you do this and you do five
then you
get
yeah but I think if you do
this oh
all
right end it check out you're
sick that's what we
did did we commit delete this
for
did we change the burer
though
oh light change to the
parer so that
[Music]
we that's what we do that's what we
do